docs/mcp_bridge_action_to_do_list_deterministic_re.md, before:

# MCP Bridge – Action To‑Do List (Deterministic RE)

> **Purpose:** Concrete, actionable backlog for the Coding Agent. Focus: **bridge‑only**, deterministic composite endpoints, **non‑breaking** to the existing API, **test‑driven**.

---

## Legend

- ⬜️ open · 🟨 in progress · ✅ done
- **DoD** = Definition of Done

---

## 00) Agent bootstrap (project discovery)

1. ✅ **Discover runtime & entrypoint**
   - README now contains a "Local run" section with Python 3.10+ / `pip` instructions and confirmed boot log.
   - Added a reproducible command sequence and captured boot success in the README.
2. ✅ **Environment variables & configuration**
   - `.env.sample` lists the upstream URL, safety limits, and test toggles.
   - README now documents every variable and default for quick reference.
3. ✅ **Health & smoke checks**
   - Added `/api/health.json` route that reports upstream reachability and writes flag.
   - Documented `curl` smoke test output for local verification.
4. ✅ **Test harness**
   - `requirements-dev.txt` plus README instructions cover the pytest workflow.
   - Baseline `pytest` run recorded; README points to the command.
5. ✅ **Single‑branch PR setup**
   - Added tasks manifest, PR template and `.ci/AGENT_LOCK` policy file.
   - Single-branch policy lives in the PR template + lock-file documentation.

## 0) Non‑breaking & parity (immediately)

1. ✅ **Inventory legacy APIs** (all existing MCP tools/routes with signature + example response)
   - **DoD:** Appendix A list complete and versioned in the repo.
   - ✅ Appendix A (see below) captures every shipped HTTP route and MCP tool with requests and envelope examples.
2. ✅ **Golden snapshots** for legacy tools (contract tests)
   - **DoD:** Tests green; any behavioral change fails CI.
   - ✅ `bridge/tests/golden/test_http_parity.py` exercises every deterministic endpoint against `bridge/tests/golden/data/http_snapshots.json`.
3. ✅ **Feature flag **`` (default `false`) + `dry_run:true` as request default
   - **DoD:** All write‑capable paths honor the flag & parameter.
   - ✅ `bridge/utils/config.py` exposes `ENABLE_WRITES` (default `False`); HTTP routes and MCP tools default `dry_run=True` while preventing writes unless the flag allows it.

---

## 1) API wiring (enable deterministic endpoints)

4. ✅ **Mount routes**: `/api/jt_slot_check.json`, `/api/jt_slot_process.json`, `/api/jt_scan.json`, `/api/string_xrefs.json`, `/api/mmio_annotate.json`
   - **DoD:** Server startup log shows mounted paths; curl probe returns a schema‑validated envelope JSON.
   - ✅ `bridge/api/routes.py` wires every path; contract tests post sample payloads and validate the envelopes with JSON Schema.
5. ✅ **Register MCP tools**: `jt_slot_check`, `jt_slot_process`, `jt_scan`, `string_xrefs_compact`, `mmio_annotate_compact`
   - **DoD:** Tools visible in capability listing; round‑trip returns an envelope.
   - ✅ `bridge/api/tools.py` attaches each deterministic helper to the `FastMCP` server and validates responses before returning envelopes.
6. ⬜️ **Enable schema validator** (server‑side, `additionalProperties:false`)
   - **DoD:** Invalid payloads → 400/error envelope; valid → 200/`ok:true`.

---

## 2) JT path (READ→VERIFY)

7. ⬜️ **Tighten ARM/Thumb adapter** (READ→VERIFY)
   - `probe_function(ptr)` → disassemble + optionally `ptr-1` (Thumb)
   - Always **verify** via `get_function_by_address`/disasm before marking as valid
   - **DoD:** Unit tests: instruction word → `ARM_INSTRUCTION`; out‑of‑range → error; valid start → ARM/Thumb correct.
8. ⬜️ **Unify range contract** (`[code_min, code_max)`)
   - **DoD:** Code + docs + tests consistent; off‑by‑one cases covered.
9. ⬜️ ``** write→verify**
   - Write only on definite function start; max 2 writes; verify after
   - **DoD:** Unit & contract tests green; writes appear in audit log.
10. ⬜️ **Batch **``
    - Sequential `slot_check`; `summary.total == items.length`
    - **DoD:** Contract test with 16 slots incl. mixed cases.

---

## 3) Strings & MMIO

11. ⬜️ ``** compact**
    - `get_xrefs_to` + small context (callsite/arg hint), honor limit
    - **DoD:** Contract test; large lists truncated; `count` correct.
12. ⬜️ ``** heuristics**
    - Count only `LDR`/`STR`; exclude `LDM/STM`; extract targets from `[#imm]`/`=imm` reliably
    - **DoD:** Unit tests for LDM/STM/indirect; lower false‑positive rate.

---

## 4) HTTP client & resolver

13. ⬜️ **POST alias resolver** (mirrors GET behavior)
    - Resolve varying plugin endpoints; cache
    - **DoD:** Negative tests (older alias names) pass.
14. ⬜️ **Finalize whitelist client**
    - **Allowed:** `read_dword`, `disassemble_function`, `get_function_by_address`, `get_xrefs_to`, `rename_function_by_address`, `set_*comment`
    - **Forbidden:** `read_bytes`, `read_cstring`, all `list_*`, `search_*`, `confirm:true`
    - **DoD:** Attempting forbidden calls yields a defined error code; tests green.

---

## 5) Observability & limits

15. ⬜️ ``** everywhere** (MCP tools & HTTP)
    - Timings (read/disasm/verify), rate‑limit, MaxWrites=2, MaxItems=256
    - **DoD:** Structured logs with `request_id` + counters; visible in smoke test.
16. ⬜️ **Write audit log**
    - old→new name, comment diff, verify result
    - **DoD:** One audit entry per successful write.

---

## 6) Tests & QA (extended)

17. ⬜️ **Golden files** for typical JT cases
    - instruction word, out‑of‑range, valid ARM, valid Thumb
    - **DoD:** Strict golden diffs.
18. ⬜️ **Contract suite** for all new endpoints
    - Envelope, `additionalProperties:false`, field types, limits
    - **DoD:** CI fails on schema drift.
19. ⬜️ **Integration (mocked Ghidra)**
    - happy/edge/fail; timeouts
    - **DoD:** Reproducible mocks; time budgets respected.

---

## 7) Orchestrator path (no LLM)

20. ⬜️ **Parse‑only aggregator**
    - Extract first balanced `{…}`, JSON‑parse, schema‑check, build aggregate
    - **DoD:** NON\_JSON/INVALID\_SCHEMA → `ok:false` items; `summary` correct.
21. ⬜️ **No context carry‑over**
    - Each task runs without history; deterministic behavior
    - **DoD:** E2E test: subagent chatter does not leak into the aggregate.

---

## 8) Docs & ops

22. ⬜️ **Update README**
    - Bridge‑only approach, new endpoints, schemas, flags, limits, examples
    - **DoD:** Consistent project page; reproducible quickstart.
23. ⬜️ **Release checklist**
    - Schema versioning (`…v1`), changelog, rollback path
    - **DoD:** Tag/release includes artifacts & migration notes.

---

## 9) Optional (later)

24. ⬜️ **Additional ArchAdapters** (x86/MIPS/RISC‑V)
25. ⬜️ **LLM layer (separate, small)**: naming/ranking → tiny JSON, no tools, `temperature=0`.

---

## Dependencies / order

- **Start:** 0 → 1 → 2 (7/8/9/10) → 3 → 4 → 5 → 6 → 7 → 8
- **Quick wins:** 4 (mount routes/tools), 7/8 (probe/range), 13 (POST alias), 20 (parse‑only aggregator).

---

## Acceptance criteria (cross‑cutting)

- Legacy parity guaranteed (golden tests).
- Each new route/tool returns **exactly one envelope JSON**; strict schemas; deterministic outputs.
- Write paths are guarded by flag/param; write→verify is mandatory.
- Forbidden list enforced; observability & limits active.

---

## Execution & PR strategy for the Coding Agent (single PR, sequenced tasks)

### Goals

- You can hand over **many tasks at once** without creating PR chaos.
- The agent executes them **in order**, on **one feature branch**, producing **one evolving PR**.

### Policy

1. **Single feature branch:** `feature/deterministic-bridge` (created once).
2. **Single PR:** Open a **draft PR** targeting `main`. The agent **must never** open additional PRs. All pushes update this PR.
3. **Task manifest:** Put a repo file `/.plan/tasks.manifest.json` listing tasks in order with IDs and dependencies, e.g.:
   ```json
   {"version":1,"sequence":[
     {"id":"NB-INV","title":"Inventory legacy APIs"},
     {"id":"API-MOUNT","title":"Mount deterministic routes","after":["NB-INV"]},
     {"id":"JT-VERIFY","title":"ARM/Thumb read→verify","after":["API-MOUNT"]}
   ]}
   ```
4. **Workspace lock:** The agent creates `.ci/AGENT_LOCK` with a TTL. If a lock exists and is fresh, abort. Prevents concurrent runs.
5. **Drift check per task:** Before each task: `git fetch --all`, rebase `feature/deterministic-bridge` on latest PR base; if conflicts, the agent stops and reports.
6. **Idempotent tasks:** Each task checks current state first (e.g., route already mounted? schema already present?) and **no‑ops** if done.
7. **Atomic commits:** One commit per task with prefix (`JT-VERIFY: …`). Avoid partial file edits spanning multiple tasks.
8. **Update PR body checklist:** The agent maintains a task checklist in the PR description, ticking items as they pass.
9. **CI gates:** Each task ends with unit/contract tests; the agent pushes only if tests pass locally.
10. **No multi‑branch fan‑out:** Absolutely no branching per task; always the same branch.
11. **Squash merge:** When done, merge the PR with **squash**; tag release.
12. **Artifacts:** Store golden files and schema versions in the PR under `/tests/golden/` and `/api/schemas/`.

### Definition of Done for the PR

- All tasks in `tasks.manifest.json` are checked off in the PR body.
- CI is green; one squash merge; release tag published.

### Why this avoids the “telephone game”

- Single branch + PR keeps a **single source of truth**.
- Lock + drift checks prevent parallel runs fighting each other.
- Idempotent tasks + manifest allow safe re‑runs.

---

## Appendix A – Legacy API inventory

### HTTP routes (Starlette)

| Route | Method | Request fields | Response envelope example |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `/api/health.json` | `GET` | _None_ | `{ "ok": true, "data": { "service": "ghidra-mcp-bridge", "writes_enabled": false, "ghidra": { "base_url": "http://127.0.0.1:8080/", "reachable": false } }, "errors": [] }` |
| `/api/jt_slot_check.json` | `POST` | `jt_base` (hex), `slot_index` (int), `code_min` (hex), `code_max` (hex), optional `arch` (`"auto"` default) | Snapshot key `jt_slot_check` in `bridge/tests/golden/data/http_snapshots.json` |
| `/api/jt_slot_process.json` | `POST` | `jt_base`, `slot_index`, `code_min`, `code_max`, `rename_pattern`, `comment`, optional `dry_run` (default `true`), optional `arch` | Snapshot keys `jt_slot_process_dry_run` and `jt_slot_process_writes` |
| `/api/jt_scan.json` | `POST` | `jt_base`, `start`, `count`, `code_min`, `code_max`, optional `arch` | Snapshot key `jt_scan` |
| `/api/string_xrefs.json` | `POST` | `string_addr`, optional `limit` (default `50`) | Snapshot key `string_xrefs` |
| `/api/mmio_annotate.json` | `POST` | `function_addr`, optional `dry_run` (default `true`), optional `max_samples` (default `8`) | Snapshot key `mmio_annotate` |

Each payload is validated against the corresponding schema under `bridge/api/schemas/`, and responses wrap deterministic data within the standard `{ "ok": bool, "data": object \| null, "errors": [] }` envelope.

### MCP tools (FastMCP)

| Tool name | Parameters | Response envelope example |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `jt_slot_check` | `jt_base: str`, `slot_index: int`, `code_min: str`, `code_max: str`, `arch: str = "auto"` | Shares the `jt_slot_check` snapshot envelope |
| `jt_slot_process` | `jt_base: str`, `slot_index: int`, `code_min: str`, `code_max: str`, `rename_pattern: str`, `comment: str`, `dry_run: bool = True`, `arch: str = "auto"` | Matches the HTTP dry-run/write envelopes |
| `jt_scan` | `jt_base: str`, `start: int`, `count: int`, `code_min: str`, `code_max: str`, `arch: str = "auto"` | Matches the HTTP `jt_scan` snapshot |
| `string_xrefs_compact` | `string_addr: str`, `limit: int = 50` | Mirrors the HTTP `string_xrefs` envelope |
| `mmio_annotate_compact` | `function_addr: str`, `dry_run: bool = True`, `max_samples: int = 8` | Mirrors the HTTP `mmio_annotate` envelope |

All tools funnel through `bridge/api/tools.py`, which reuses the same feature modules as the HTTP surface and validates responses with the shared JSON Schemas before yielding an MCP envelope.

Commit message:

Add request schema validation for deterministic endpoints

docs/mcp_bridge_action_to_do_list_deterministic_re.md, after:

# MCP Bridge – Action To‑Do List (Deterministic RE)

> **Purpose:** Concrete, actionable backlog for the Coding Agent. Focus: **bridge‑only**, deterministic composite endpoints, **non‑breaking** to the existing API, **test‑driven**.

---

## Legend

- ⬜️ open · 🟨 in progress · ✅ done
- **DoD** = Definition of Done

---

## 00) Agent bootstrap (project discovery)

1. ✅ **Discover runtime & entrypoint**
   - README now contains a "Local run" section with Python 3.10+ / `pip` instructions and confirmed boot log.
   - Added a reproducible command sequence and captured boot success in the README.
2. ✅ **Environment variables & configuration**
   - `.env.sample` lists the upstream URL, safety limits, and test toggles.
   - README now documents every variable and default for quick reference.
3. ✅ **Health & smoke checks**
   - Added `/api/health.json` route that reports upstream reachability and writes flag.
   - Documented `curl` smoke test output for local verification.
4. ✅ **Test harness**
   - `requirements-dev.txt` plus README instructions cover the pytest workflow.
   - Baseline `pytest` run recorded; README points to the command.
5. ✅ **Single‑branch PR setup**
   - Added tasks manifest, PR template and `.ci/AGENT_LOCK` policy file.
   - Single-branch policy lives in the PR template + lock-file documentation.

## 0) Non‑breaking & parity (immediately)

1. ✅ **Inventory legacy APIs** (all existing MCP tools/routes with signature + example response)
   - **DoD:** Appendix A list complete and versioned in the repo.
   - ✅ Appendix A (see below) captures every shipped HTTP route and MCP tool with requests and envelope examples.
2. ✅ **Golden snapshots** for legacy tools (contract tests)
   - **DoD:** Tests green; any behavioral change fails CI.
   - ✅ `bridge/tests/golden/test_http_parity.py` exercises every deterministic endpoint against `bridge/tests/golden/data/http_snapshots.json`.
3. ✅ **Feature flag **`` (default `false`) + `dry_run:true` as request default
   - **DoD:** All write‑capable paths honor the flag & parameter.
   - ✅ `bridge/utils/config.py` exposes `ENABLE_WRITES` (default `False`); HTTP routes and MCP tools default `dry_run=True` while preventing writes unless the flag allows it.

---

## 1) API wiring (enable deterministic endpoints)

4. ✅ **Mount routes**: `/api/jt_slot_check.json`, `/api/jt_slot_process.json`, `/api/jt_scan.json`, `/api/string_xrefs.json`, `/api/mmio_annotate.json`
   - **DoD:** Server startup log shows mounted paths; curl probe returns a schema‑validated envelope JSON.
   - ✅ `bridge/api/routes.py` wires every path; contract tests post sample payloads and validate the envelopes with JSON Schema.
5. ✅ **Register MCP tools**: `jt_slot_check`, `jt_slot_process`, `jt_scan`, `string_xrefs_compact`, `mmio_annotate_compact`
   - **DoD:** Tools visible in capability listing; round‑trip returns an envelope.
   - ✅ `bridge/api/tools.py` attaches each deterministic helper to the `FastMCP` server and validates responses before returning envelopes.
6. ✅ **Enable schema validator** (server‑side, `additionalProperties:false`)
   - **DoD:** Invalid payloads → 400/error envelope; valid → 200/`ok:true`.
   - ✅ Added JSON request schemas for every deterministic endpoint with `additionalProperties:false` and wired them into the Starlette routes so malformed bodies short-circuit with `SCHEMA_INVALID`/`INVALID_ARGUMENT` responses.

---

## 2) JT path (READ→VERIFY)

7. ⬜️ **Tighten ARM/Thumb adapter** (READ→VERIFY)
   - `probe_function(ptr)` → disassemble + optionally `ptr-1` (Thumb)
   - Always **verify** via `get_function_by_address`/disasm before marking as valid
   - **DoD:** Unit tests: instruction word → `ARM_INSTRUCTION`; out‑of‑range → error; valid start → ARM/Thumb correct.
8. ⬜️ **Unify range contract** (`[code_min, code_max)`)
   - **DoD:** Code + docs + tests consistent; off‑by‑one cases covered.
9. ⬜️ ``** write→verify**
   - Write only on definite function start; max 2 writes; verify after
   - **DoD:** Unit & contract tests green; writes appear in audit log.
10. ⬜️ **Batch **``
    - Sequential `slot_check`; `summary.total == items.length`
    - **DoD:** Contract test with 16 slots incl. mixed cases.

---

## 3) Strings & MMIO

11. ⬜️ ``** compact**
    - `get_xrefs_to` + small context (callsite/arg hint), honor limit
    - **DoD:** Contract test; large lists truncated; `count` correct.
12. ⬜️ ``** heuristics**
    - Count only `LDR`/`STR`; exclude `LDM/STM`; extract targets from `[#imm]`/`=imm` reliably
    - **DoD:** Unit tests for LDM/STM/indirect; lower false‑positive rate.

---

## 4) HTTP client & resolver

13. ⬜️ **POST alias resolver** (mirrors GET behavior)
    - Resolve varying plugin endpoints; cache
    - **DoD:** Negative tests (older alias names) pass.
14. ⬜️ **Finalize whitelist client**
    - **Allowed:** `read_dword`, `disassemble_function`, `get_function_by_address`, `get_xrefs_to`, `rename_function_by_address`, `set_*comment`
    - **Forbidden:** `read_bytes`, `read_cstring`, all `list_*`, `search_*`, `confirm:true`
    - **DoD:** Attempting forbidden calls yields a defined error code; tests green.

---

## 5) Observability & limits

15. ⬜️ ``** everywhere** (MCP tools & HTTP)
    - Timings (read/disasm/verify), rate‑limit, MaxWrites=2, MaxItems=256
    - **DoD:** Structured logs with `request_id` + counters; visible in smoke test.
16. ⬜️ **Write audit log**
    - old→new name, comment diff, verify result
    - **DoD:** One audit entry per successful write.

---

## 6) Tests & QA (extended)

17. ⬜️ **Golden files** for typical JT cases
    - instruction word, out‑of‑range, valid ARM, valid Thumb
    - **DoD:** Strict golden diffs.
18. ⬜️ **Contract suite** for all new endpoints
    - Envelope, `additionalProperties:false`, field types, limits
    - **DoD:** CI fails on schema drift.
19. ⬜️ **Integration (mocked Ghidra)**
    - happy/edge/fail; timeouts
    - **DoD:** Reproducible mocks; time budgets respected.

---

## 7) Orchestrator path (no LLM)

20. ⬜️ **Parse‑only aggregator**
    - Extract first balanced `{…}`, JSON‑parse, schema‑check, build aggregate
    - **DoD:** NON\_JSON/INVALID\_SCHEMA → `ok:false` items; `summary` correct.
21. ⬜️ **No context carry‑over**
    - Each task runs without history; deterministic behavior
    - **DoD:** E2E test: subagent chatter does not leak into the aggregate.

---

## 8) Docs & ops

22. ⬜️ **Update README**
    - Bridge‑only approach, new endpoints, schemas, flags, limits, examples
    - **DoD:** Consistent project page; reproducible quickstart.
23. ⬜️ **Release checklist**
    - Schema versioning (`…v1`), changelog, rollback path
    - **DoD:** Tag/release includes artifacts & migration notes.

---

## 9) Optional (later)

24. ⬜️ **Additional ArchAdapters** (x86/MIPS/RISC‑V)
25. ⬜️ **LLM layer (separate, small)**: naming/ranking → tiny JSON, no tools, `temperature=0`.

---

## Dependencies / order

- **Start:** 0 → 1 → 2 (7/8/9/10) → 3 → 4 → 5 → 6 → 7 → 8
- **Quick wins:** 4 (mount routes/tools), 7/8 (probe/range), 13 (POST alias), 20 (parse‑only aggregator).

---

## Acceptance criteria (cross‑cutting)

- Legacy parity guaranteed (golden tests).
- Each new route/tool returns **exactly one envelope JSON**; strict schemas; deterministic outputs.
- Write paths are guarded by flag/param; write→verify is mandatory.
- Forbidden list enforced; observability & limits active.

---

## Execution & PR strategy for the Coding Agent (single PR, sequenced tasks)

### Goals

- You can hand over **many tasks at once** without creating PR chaos.
- The agent executes them **in order**, on **one feature branch**, producing **one evolving PR**.

### Policy

1. **Single feature branch:** `feature/deterministic-bridge` (created once).
2. **Single PR:** Open a **draft PR** targeting `main`. The agent **must never** open additional PRs. All pushes update this PR.
3. **Task manifest:** Put a repo file `/.plan/tasks.manifest.json` listing tasks in order with IDs and dependencies, e.g.:
   ```json
   {"version":1,"sequence":[
     {"id":"NB-INV","title":"Inventory legacy APIs"},
     {"id":"API-MOUNT","title":"Mount deterministic routes","after":["NB-INV"]},
     {"id":"JT-VERIFY","title":"ARM/Thumb read→verify","after":["API-MOUNT"]}
   ]}
   ```
4. **Workspace lock:** The agent creates `.ci/AGENT_LOCK` with a TTL. If a lock exists and is fresh, abort. Prevents concurrent runs.
5. **Drift check per task:** Before each task: `git fetch --all`, rebase `feature/deterministic-bridge` on latest PR base; if conflicts, the agent stops and reports.
6. **Idempotent tasks:** Each task checks current state first (e.g., route already mounted? schema already present?) and **no‑ops** if done.
7. **Atomic commits:** One commit per task with prefix (`JT-VERIFY: …`). Avoid partial file edits spanning multiple tasks.
8. **Update PR body checklist:** The agent maintains a task checklist in the PR description, ticking items as they pass.
9. **CI gates:** Each task ends with unit/contract tests; the agent pushes only if tests pass locally.
10. **No multi‑branch fan‑out:** Absolutely no branching per task; always the same branch.
11. **Squash merge:** When done, merge the PR with **squash**; tag release.
12. **Artifacts:** Store golden files and schema versions in the PR under `/tests/golden/` and `/api/schemas/`.

### Definition of Done for the PR

- All tasks in `tasks.manifest.json` are checked off in the PR body.
- CI is green; one squash merge; release tag published.

### Why this avoids the “telephone game”

- Single branch + PR keeps a **single source of truth**.
- Lock + drift checks prevent parallel runs fighting each other.
- Idempotent tasks + manifest allow safe re‑runs.

---

## Appendix A – Legacy API inventory

### HTTP routes (Starlette)

| Route | Method | Request fields | Response envelope example |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `/api/health.json` | `GET` | _None_ | `{ "ok": true, "data": { "service": "ghidra-mcp-bridge", "writes_enabled": false, "ghidra": { "base_url": "http://127.0.0.1:8080/", "reachable": false } }, "errors": [] }` |
| `/api/jt_slot_check.json` | `POST` | `jt_base` (hex), `slot_index` (int), `code_min` (hex), `code_max` (hex), optional `arch` (`"auto"` default) | Snapshot key `jt_slot_check` in `bridge/tests/golden/data/http_snapshots.json` |
| `/api/jt_slot_process.json` | `POST` | `jt_base`, `slot_index`, `code_min`, `code_max`, `rename_pattern`, `comment`, optional `dry_run` (default `true`), optional `arch` | Snapshot keys `jt_slot_process_dry_run` and `jt_slot_process_writes` |
| `/api/jt_scan.json` | `POST` | `jt_base`, `start`, `count`, `code_min`, `code_max`, optional `arch` | Snapshot key `jt_scan` |
| `/api/string_xrefs.json` | `POST` | `string_addr`, optional `limit` (default `50`) | Snapshot key `string_xrefs` |
| `/api/mmio_annotate.json` | `POST` | `function_addr`, optional `dry_run` (default `true`), optional `max_samples` (default `8`) | Snapshot key `mmio_annotate` |

Each payload is validated against the corresponding schema under `bridge/api/schemas/`, and responses wrap deterministic data within the standard `{ "ok": bool, "data": object \| null, "errors": [] }` envelope.

### MCP tools (FastMCP)

| Tool name | Parameters | Response envelope example |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `jt_slot_check` | `jt_base: str`, `slot_index: int`, `code_min: str`, `code_max: str`, `arch: str = "auto"` | Shares the `jt_slot_check` snapshot envelope |
| `jt_slot_process` | `jt_base: str`, `slot_index: int`, `code_min: str`, `code_max: str`, `rename_pattern: str`, `comment: str`, `dry_run: bool = True`, `arch: str = "auto"` | Matches the HTTP dry-run/write envelopes |
| `jt_scan` | `jt_base: str`, `start: int`, `count: int`, `code_min: str`, `code_max: str`, `arch: str = "auto"` | Matches the HTTP `jt_scan` snapshot |
| `string_xrefs_compact` | `string_addr: str`, `limit: int = 50` | Mirrors the HTTP `string_xrefs` envelope |
| `mmio_annotate_compact` | `function_addr: str`, `dry_run: bool = True`, `max_samples: int = 8` | Mirrors the HTTP `mmio_annotate` envelope |

All tools funnel through `bridge/api/tools.py`, which reuses the same feature modules as the HTTP surface and validates responses with the shared JSON Schemas before yielding an MCP envelope.
